docs/source/core_services.md, before:

# Core Services

**aind-data-transfer-service**

FastAPI service to run data compression and transfer jobs on the HPC

[link](http://aind-data-transfer-service/) | [readthedoc](https://aind-data-transfer-service.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) | [repo](https://github.com/AllenNeuralDynamics/aind-data-transfer-service)

**aind-metadata-mapper**

Repository to help gather and map metadata from different sources 

[readthedoc](https://aind-metadata-mapper.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) | [repo](https://github.com/AllenNeuralDynamics/aind-metadata-mapper)

**aind-metadata-service**

REST service to retrieve metadata from AIND databases 

[link](http://aind-metadata-service/) | [readthedoc](http://aind-metadata-service/docs) | [repo](https://github.com/AllenNeuralDynamics/aind-metadata-service)

**aind-metadata-entry-js**

UI for metadata ingestion and validation 

[link](https://metadata-entry.allenneuraldynamics.org/) | [repo](https://github.com/AllenNeuralDynamics/aind-metadata-entry-js)

**aind-data-access-api**

Library to interface with AIND databases

[tutorial](https://codeocean.allenneuraldynamics.org/capsule/9613367/tree/v1) | [readthedoc](https://aind-data-access-api.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) | [repo](https://github.com/AllenNeuralDynamics/aind-data-access-api)

**aind-data-asset-indexer**

Index jobs for AIND metadata in AWS DocumentDB and S3 

[readthedoc](https://aind-data-asset-indexer.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) | [repo](https://github.com/AllenNeuralDynamics/aind-data-asset-indexer)

**aind-qc-portal**

Browser application for viewing and annotating AIND QC metadata and metrics

[link](https://qc.allenneuraldynamics.org/qc_project_app) | [repo](https://github.com/AllenNeuralDynamics/aind-qc-portal)

**aind-library-template**

A basic template for a library code base

[repo](https://github.com/AllenNeuralDynamics/aind-library-template)

Commit message:

docs: add aind-co-pipeline-monitor-capsule to core services list

docs/source/core_services.md, after:

# Core Services

**aind-data-transfer-service**

FastAPI service to run data compression and transfer jobs on the HPC

[link](http://aind-data-transfer-service/) | [readthedoc](https://aind-data-transfer-service.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) | [repo](https://github.com/AllenNeuralDynamics/aind-data-transfer-service)

**aind-metadata-mapper**

Repository to help gather and map metadata from different sources

[readthedoc](https://aind-metadata-mapper.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) | [repo](https://github.com/AllenNeuralDynamics/aind-metadata-mapper)

**aind-metadata-service**

REST service to retrieve metadata from AIND databases

[link](http://aind-metadata-service/) | [readthedoc](http://aind-metadata-service/docs) | [repo](https://github.com/AllenNeuralDynamics/aind-metadata-service)

**aind-metadata-entry-js**

UI for metadata ingestion and validation

[link](https://metadata-entry.allenneuraldynamics.org/) | [repo](https://github.com/AllenNeuralDynamics/aind-metadata-entry-js)

**aind-data-access-api**

Library to interface with AIND databases

[tutorial](https://codeocean.allenneuraldynamics.org/capsule/9613367/tree/v1) | [readthedoc](https://aind-data-access-api.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) | [repo](https://github.com/AllenNeuralDynamics/aind-data-access-api)

**aind-data-asset-indexer**

Index jobs for AIND metadata in AWS DocumentDB and S3

[readthedoc](https://aind-data-asset-indexer.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) | [repo](https://github.com/AllenNeuralDynamics/aind-data-asset-indexer)

**aind-qc-portal**

Browser application for viewing and annotating AIND QC metadata and metrics

[link](https://qc.allenneuraldynamics.org/qc_project_app) | [repo](https://github.com/AllenNeuralDynamics/aind-qc-portal)

**aind-library-template**

A basic template for a library code base

[repo](https://github.com/AllenNeuralDynamics/aind-library-template)

**aind-co-pipeline-monitor-capsule**

Capsule to start a pipeline, wait for it to finish, and optionally capture the results

[repo](https://github.com/AllenNeuralDynamics/aind-co-pipeline-monitor-capsule)
