docs/source/philosophy/scicomp-teams.md, before:

# Scientific Computing at AIND

## Core principles

All of the teams in Scientific Computing adhere to a set of core principles about our software.

### Code Review 

At least one other software developer needs to approve a pull request in order for it to be merged. Please be courteous when providing feedback. The team lead can resolve any conflicts. 

### Style

We use `black`, `flake8`, and `interrogate` to enforce [PEP 8](https://peps.python.org/pep-0008/) standards with [docstrings](https://peps.python.org/pep-0257/) in [NUMPY](https://numpydoc.readthedocs.io/en/latest/format.html) format.

### Versioning

We use [semver](https://semver.org/) major.minor.patch versions, these are automatically incremented when you use the `aind-library-template`. Note that for major versions you need to put the exact string "BREAKING CHANGE" in the commit *comment* (not the title).

You should set patch version floor `>=1.0.0` and major version ceiling `<2` for each internal dependency that you use. This is good practice for all dependencies.

## Data Infrastructure

Data Infrastructure maintains the core services in AIND.

Some of the major core services:

**aind-data-transfer-service**

FastAPI service to run data compression and transfer jobs on the HPC

[link](http://aind-data-transfer-service/) | [readthedoc](https://aind-data-transfer-service.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) | [repo](https://github.com/AllenNeuralDynamics/aind-data-transfer-service)

**aind-metadata-service**

REST service to retrieve metadata from AIND databases 

[link](http://aind-metadata-service/) | [readthedoc](http://aind-metadata-service/docs) | [repo](https://github.com/AllenNeuralDynamics/aind-metadata-service)

**aind-data-access-api**

Library to interface with AIND databases

[tutorial](https://codeocean.allenneuraldynamics.org/capsule/9613367/tree/v1) | [readthedoc](https://aind-data-access-api.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) | [repo](https://github.com/AllenNeuralDynamics/aind-data-access-api)

**aind-data-asset-indexer**

Index jobs for AIND metadata in AWS DocumentDB and S3 

[readthedoc](https://aind-data-asset-indexer.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) | [repo](https://github.com/AllenNeuralDynamics/aind-data-asset-indexer)


## Data & Outreach

The Data & Outreach team maintains the data schema and associated downstream tools and is responsible for coordinating workshops and other outreach events.

**aind-data-schema**

Metadata schema for neuroscience

[readthedoc](https://aind-data-schema.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) | [repo](https://github.com/AllenNeuralDynamics/aind-data-schema) | [registries repo](https://github.com/AllenNeuralDynamics/aind-data-schema-models/)

**aind-metadata-mapper**

Repository to help gather and map metadata from different sources 

[readthedoc](https://aind-metadata-mapper.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) | [repo](https://github.com/AllenNeuralDynamics/aind-metadata-mapper)

## Physiology and Behavior

[todo]

## Computer Vision

[todo]

## Resources for SWEs

For research software engineers, [Good Research Code](https://goodresearch.dev/) is a good primer.

[Data structure fundamentals](https://www.crackingthecodinginterview.com/)

Commit message:

docs: add an outreach subsection to data outreach team

docs/source/philosophy/scicomp-teams.md, after:

# Scientific Computing at AIND

## Core principles

All of the teams in Scientific Computing adhere to a set of core principles about our software.

### Code Review 

At least one other software developer needs to approve a pull request in order for it to be merged. Please be courteous when providing feedback. The team lead can resolve any conflicts. 

### Style

We use `black`, `flake8`, and `interrogate` to enforce [PEP 8](https://peps.python.org/pep-0008/) standards with [docstrings](https://peps.python.org/pep-0257/) in [NUMPY](https://numpydoc.readthedocs.io/en/latest/format.html) format.

### Versioning

We use [semver](https://semver.org/) major.minor.patch versions, these are automatically incremented when you use the `aind-library-template`. Note that for major versions you need to put the exact string "BREAKING CHANGE" in the commit *comment* (not the title).

You should set patch version floor `>=1.0.0` and major version ceiling `<2` for each internal dependency that you use. This is good practice for all dependencies.

## Data Infrastructure

Data Infrastructure maintains the core services in AIND.

Some of the major core services:

**aind-data-transfer-service**

FastAPI service to run data compression and transfer jobs on the HPC

[link](http://aind-data-transfer-service/) | [readthedoc](https://aind-data-transfer-service.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) | [repo](https://github.com/AllenNeuralDynamics/aind-data-transfer-service)

**aind-metadata-service**

REST service to retrieve metadata from AIND databases 

[link](http://aind-metadata-service/) | [readthedoc](http://aind-metadata-service/docs) | [repo](https://github.com/AllenNeuralDynamics/aind-metadata-service)

**aind-data-access-api**

Library to interface with AIND databases

[tutorial](https://codeocean.allenneuraldynamics.org/capsule/9613367/tree/v1) | [readthedoc](https://aind-data-access-api.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) | [repo](https://github.com/AllenNeuralDynamics/aind-data-access-api)

**aind-data-asset-indexer**

Index jobs for AIND metadata in AWS DocumentDB and S3 

[readthedoc](https://aind-data-asset-indexer.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) | [repo](https://github.com/AllenNeuralDynamics/aind-data-asset-indexer)


## Data & Outreach

The Data & Outreach team maintains the data schema and associated downstream tools and is responsible for coordinating workshops and other outreach events.

**aind-data-schema**

Metadata schema for neuroscience

[readthedoc](https://aind-data-schema.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) | [repo](https://github.com/AllenNeuralDynamics/aind-data-schema) | [registries repo](https://github.com/AllenNeuralDynamics/aind-data-schema-models/)

**aind-metadata-mapper**

Repository to help gather and map metadata from different sources 

[readthedoc](https://aind-metadata-mapper.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) | [repo](https://github.com/AllenNeuralDynamics/aind-metadata-mapper)

### Outreach

**SWDB Data Book**

Data book for the SWDB course

[SWDB data book](https://allenswdb.github.io/intro.html)

## Physiology & Behavior

The Physiology & Behavior team maintains the pipelines that process each modality of data asset that we acquire in AIND. Details can be found on the [processing](../acquire_upload/processing.md)

## Computer Vision

[todo]

## Resources for SWEs

For research software engineers, [Good Research Code](https://goodresearch.dev/) is a good primer.

[Data structure fundamentals](https://www.crackingthecodinginterview.com/)
